---
layout: page-fullwidth
header: no
title: Values
image:
   file: values_images.png
   title: Andrew Felder and his children.
---

The Monroe County Treasurer is custodian of all county funds, chairman of the
landbank, and deals with undeveloped and disused properties in the county.
Andrew’s clear priorities and strong values make him the best candidate for
this office.


### Why are you running for Monroe County Treasurer?

Service is ingrained in Andrew’s DNA. A vast majority of his family are
doctors, nurses, teachers, and members of the military. They have dedicated
both their time and talents to serving their communities. It is his hope to
follow in their footsteps, create a positive change, and continue serving his
home community in this new position.

Additionally, Andrew believes he possess the necessary qualifications and
experience to do well in this position. As a data analyst at Ford he leverages
internal data systems to provide insight into future program cost targets.
Working with various teams he analyzes financial data and provides both
forecasts and cost estimations. These skills will enable him to work with those
within the County Treasurer’s Office and the Township Treasurers and make
informed decisions with regards to financial policy. Andrew also has experience
in elected office. He has served on the Monroe City Council since 2018. As a
City Councilor, He has listened to and represented the citizens of Monroe,
proposed and passed local policy, and helped to navigate the city through
crises such as revenue changes and the COVID-19 pandemic. This experience will
allow him to represent Monroe County in conscientious, honest, and transparent
way.


### What are your main priorities and goals if elected?

_County Financial Security_: As custodian of the county's funds, Andrew will
work with the County Administration and Board of Commissioners to ensure the
county's financial security and provide flexibility to the budget through the
Investment Policy.

_Economic Development_: In his time on City Council Andrew and his colleagues
pursued an aggressive policy of redeveloping the city. As treasurer, Andrew
would use his role as chairman of the land bank to help redevelop our
communities

_Interjurisdictional Cooperation_: Serving on Council has provided Andrew with
several opportunities to cooperate with the county and townships on many
projects. He looks forward to coordinating with township Treasurers in carrying
out the duties of the Office.

_Working with Residents_: Andrew will continue the Treasurer's policy of
working with residents through payment plans to keep families in their homes.


### What challenges will the Treasurer’s Office face because of the pandemic and how can they be addressed?

First and foremost is ensuring the safety of our residents and employees. As a
member of city council, Andrew and his colleagues enacted nine resolutions in
response to COVID-19. These resolutions aimed to protect our community, guide
the reopening of the city, and assist local businesses. He plans to use this
experience to safeguard our community.

Second, the economic impact of the pandemic coupled with DTE’s property
reassessment will need to be handled. The Treasurer’s Office must maintain an
investment policy which accounts for these changes. As a city councilor, in
response to DTE’s tax reassessment, Andrew and his colleagues put over $3
million into a reserve fund without layoffs or raising property taxes. He will
use this balanced approach to help safely navigate Monroe County through this
pandemic.


### What values will guide you in this position?

_Family_: Andrew’s hope is to ensure Monroe County continues to be a wonderful
place for his children, Teddy and Emmy, to grow-up.

_Community Driven_: Andrew believes that communities, and the people who make
them up, provide support, resources, and connections. He plans to reach out to
the community, be guided by their concerns and needs, and serve them to the
best of his ability.

_Balanced Approach_: Ensuring fiscal responsibility in Monroe County requires
consideration of both the overall budgetary issues and the financial concerns
of businesses and individuals. He will pursue a policy approach which protects
the finances and the people of Monroe County.

_Experience_: Experience in financial management, service, and community
engagement are absolutely necessary to being a successful County Treasurer.
Andrew will utilize his experience as a data analyst at Ford, a City Councilor
of Monroe, and an active member of the community to aid him in this position.

_Honesty_: Finally, Andrew strives to be open, honest, and transparent. He
believes that community trust can only exist when these are present. He
encourages members of the community to discuss the critical issues facing our
Monroe County with him and he will provide honest responses. He plans to bring
all of these values with him to office.

